rel: prepare v3.0.0 (#1702)
honeycombio/refinery: RELEASE_NOTES.md

While [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md) contains detailed documentation and links to all the source code changes in a given release, this document is intended to be aimed at a more comprehensible version of the contents of the release from the point of view of users of Refinery.

## Version 3.0.0

This is a performance improvement release, focused on memory utilization.
The improvements introduce some backwards breaking changes which are covered in detail below.

### Performance Improvements

Refinery's memory usage improvements are the result of reducing the number data transformations performed during the receipt and retransmit of traces.
Reduced data transformations has reduced memory allocations and time spent in garbage collection.
To take full advantage of these optimizations, send telemetry to Refinery in supported binary formats whenever possible.
When sending OTLP, use http/protobuf (preferred) or GRPC.

> If you are sending OTLP as http/json, consider using an OpenTelemetry Collector to receive it and send to Refinery with an OTLP exporter using http/protobuf (preferred) or GRPC.

Author: Combined with @verythorough's recommendation for bullets, how's this look?

> To take full advantage of these optimizations, send telemetry to Refinery in supported binary formats whenever possible.
> 
> * When sending OTLP, use http/protobuf (preferred) or GRPC.
>   * If you *must* send OTLP as http/json:
>     * Limit batch sizes to 1024 spans.
>     * Consider using an OpenTelemetry Collector to receive http/json and configure an OTLP exporter to send to Refinery with http/protobuf (preferred) or GRPC.
> * When sending libhoney events (using Beelines), use msgpack.

  * Outgoing Buffer Sizes
    * `PeerBufferSize` and `UpstreamBufferSize` - **Remove** these options. These queue sizes no longer need to be set.
  * Trace Locality Mode (experimental)
    * `TraceLocalityMode` - **Remove** this option. This experimental feature has been removed.
    * `MaxDropDecisionBatchSize`, `DropDecisionSendInterval`, `MaxKeptDecisionBatchSize`, and `KeptDecisionSendInterval` - Remove these options related to `TraceLocalityMode`.

* Replace:
  * `CacheCapacity` - **Remove** this option.
    * **Replace** it with `IncomingQueueSize` and `PeerQueueSize` if these are not already set.
    * Appropriate starting values for these queue sizes are 3 times the previous value of `CacheCapacity`.
  * `LegacyMetrics` - **Replace** with `OTelMetrics`
    * LegacyMetrics was deprecated in v2.0.0 and is being removed in this release.
    * Both metric types have the same configuration options.
    * Some metrics will have slightly different names after this change; see below for details.

### Metrics (️⚠️ Breaking Changes!)

Some metrics have been removed, some added, some renamed, some behave slightly differently.

> These changes mean that existing boards or alerts using the affected metrics will break and require updating.

Reviewer: Suggestion to be more specific about "break"

```suggestion
These changes mean that existing boards or alerts using the affected metrics will stop behaving as expected and will require updating.
```

> 

Reviewer: I think that makes sense, perhaps after removed?

> * Removed:

Reviewer: Are there any recommended alternatives to these removed metrics?

Reviewer 2: Maybe this is a good reason for adding the newly introduced metrics in the release note as well

    * Replaced with more specific counters for variations of OTLP signal type and send protocol. See **Added** below.

* Added:
  * Request counters for specific OTLP signal type and send protocol combinations.
    These are counts of telemetry client *requests*, likely sending batches of one or more spans or logs.
    * `incoming_router_otlp_trace_grpc`
    * `incoming_router_otlp_trace_http_json`
    * `incoming_router_otlp_trace_http_proto`
    * `incoming_router_otlp_log_grpc`
    * `incoming_router_otlp_log_http_json`
    * `incoming_router_otlp_log_http_proto`

* Renamed:
  * Histograms sent as LegacyMetrics separated the metric name and the aggregation function with an underscore (`_`).
    The equivalent OTelMetrics histogram separates name and function with a period (`.`).
    For example, the legacy metric `collect_cache_entries_max` is now the OTel metric `collect_cache_entries.max`.

* New Behavior:
  * `(incoming|peer)_router_span` tracks the number of spans received by refinery *regardless of stress relief*.
    * `incoming_router_span` now tracks the *total* number of spans received from clients.
    * `peer_router_span` tracks only spans received from peers.

>   * `libhoney_(peer|upstream)_queue_time` baseline will appear higher due to more efficient batching behavior.

Author: Expand on what was more efficient about our batching behavior?

```suggestion
  * `libhoney_(peer|upstream)_queue_time` baseline will appear higher due to larger default send batch sizes to reduce network transmit overhead.
```
